src/monero/database/pruning.md, before:

# Pruning

Monero pruning works by having 8 possible pruning seed, the seed chosen will decide what part of the blockchains signing data your node will keep. Each pruned peer generates their pruning seed randomly.

## Stripes 

This is the amount of different blockchain portions that a pruned peer could keep. For Monero this is currently 8 that means the blockchain's signing data is split into 8 portions.

## Stripes Size

Depending on your stripe, and therefore your seed, monerod will store, in a cyclic manner, a  portion of blocks while discarding the ones that are out of your stripe. The stripes size is the size, or amount of blocks before another stripe will have to store their portion of blocks, it is defined at 4096. That means that in terms of block's height, the first pruning stripe will store blocks 0 to 4095, the second stripes will store blocks 4096 to 8191, the third stripe will store blocks 8192 to 12288... etc. While a specific stripe is storing portion of the blockchain, nodes with another stripe can just discard them. This is shown in the table below:


| stripe           | 1             | 2            | 3            | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  |
|------------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|----|----|----|----|----|
| will have blocks | 0 - 4095      | 4096 - 8,191 | 8192 - 12287 | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | 32768 - 36863 | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | ..            | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |

## Tip Blocks

Blocks within 5500 of the tip of the chain will not be pruned.

## Generating Pruning Seeds

The function in Monero to generate pruning seeds:

```c++
uint32_t make_pruning_seed(uint32_t stripe, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(log_stripes <= PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK, "log_stripes out of range");
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(stripe > 0 && stripe <= (1ul << log_stripes), "stripe out of range");
  return (log_stripes << PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT) | ((stripe - 1) << PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT);
}
```
This function takes in a stripe which is number 1 to 8 including(1 & 8) and a log_stripes which is log2 of the amount of different stripes (8) which is 3.

The constants used in this function:
```c++
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT = 7;
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK = 0x7;
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT = 0;
```
The possible inputs/ outputs of this function (`log_stripes` is always 3)

| input (stripe) | output (seed) |
|----------------|---------------|
| 1              | 384           |
| 2              | 385           |
| 3              | 386           |
| 4              | 387           |
| 5              | 388           |
| 6              | 389           |
| 7              | 390           |
| 8              | 391           |

## Getting A Seeds Log Stripes

Monero currently only accepts a log stripes value of 3 and will reject any peers that use a different value. The function to calculate a seeds log stripes is:

```c++
constexpr inline uint32_t get_pruning_log_stripes(uint32_t pruning_seed) { 
    return (pruning_seed >> PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT) & PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK; 
}

```

This only return 3 for all currently valid Monero seeds.

## Getting A Seeds Pruning Stripe

The seed's pruning stripe corresponds, as explain earlier, to the range of blocks we keep. This is the function that give the stripe with the pruning seed in Monero:

```c++
  inline uint32_t get_pruning_stripe(uint32_t pruning_seed) { 
    if (pruning_seed == 0) return 0; 
    return 1 + ((pruning_seed >> PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT) & PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_MASK); }
```

A pruning seed of 0 means no pruning. This function is just the inverse of [Generating Pruning Seeds](#generating-pruning-seeds) so the inputs/ outputs of this will just be the other way round. 

## Getting A Blocks Pruning Stripe

A Blocks pruning stripe is the stripe that corresponds to keeping that block so for blocks 0 to 4095 this will be 1, for blocks 4096 to 8191 this will be 2.
The function in Monero to get the pruning stripe that corresponds to keeping that block is:

```c++
uint32_t get_pruning_stripe(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return 0;
  return ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & (uint64_t)((1ul << log_stripes) - 1)) + 1;
}
```
[Pruning Stripe Size](#stripes-size)

This function takes in a number (`block_height`) and outputs a number 0 to 8. Zero is a special case for if the block_height is within Tip Blocks, this means every seed should keep this block. For 1 to 8 the output will rotate every 4096 so if I input 0 the output is 1 and if I input 4096 the output is 2 and so 
on...

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

As you can see, this function first checks if the block_height is within Tip Blocks and returns 0, because every seed will have this block.

`((1ul << log_stripes) - 1)` This sets the last 3 bits: `0000 0111` so when we bitand we 
remove every other bit.

`(block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE)`:
- for any block 0 to 4095 dividing by 4096 will output 0 (stripe: 1)
- for any block 4096 to 8191 dividing by 4096 will output 1 (stripe: 2)
- for any blocks 32768 to 36863 dividing by 4096 will output 8 (stripe: 1)

Here's an issue, we need the strips to be cyclic. A result of 8 should give an output of 1, and a result of 455 should give an output of 5.
To do so we just use the modulo operation. (8 mod 8 = 1, 455 mod 8 = 5) In binary operation, if the divisor is a power of two, then this is 
equivalent to bitand the value with the divisor -1:

This is why if we bitand this with 7 (0000 0111) this then becomes:
- 0 to 4095 would be 0
- 4096 to 8191 would be 1
- 32768 to 36863 would be 0

now we are close, all we have to do now to get the stripe is add 1


## Getting A Blocks Pruning Seed

The Blocks pruning seed is the seed that will keep that block. This is the function in Monero:

```c++
uint32_t get_pruning_seed(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(block_height, blockchain_height, log_stripes);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return 0;
  return make_pruning_seed(stripe, log_stripes);
}
```
This is simple, a call to [`get_pruning_stripe`](#geting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) and passing that stripe into [`make_pruning_seed`](#generating-pruning-seeds)

## Getting The Next UnPruned Block 

For a particular seed and block height we can calculate what the height of the next un-pruned block will 
be. The function to fo this in Monero is: 

```c++
uint64_t get_next_unpruned_block_height(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t pruning_seed)
{
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(block_height <= CRYPTONOTE_MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER+1, block_height, "block_height too large");
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(blockchain_height <= CRYPTONOTE_MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER+1, block_height, "blockchain_height too large");
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return block_height;
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return block_height;
  const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
  const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
  const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
  const uint32_t block_pruning_stripe = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
  if (block_pruning_stripe == stripe)
    return block_height;
  const uint64_t cycles = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) >> log_stripes);
  const uint64_t cycle_start = cycles + ((stripe > block_pruning_stripe) ? 0 : 1);
  const uint64_t h = cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes) + (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE;
  if (h + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS > blockchain_height)
    return blockchain_height < CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS ? 0 : blockchain_height - CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS;
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(h >= block_height, block_height, "h < block_height, unexpected");
  return h;
}
```
As you can see this is a monstrous function

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

```c++
const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
if (stripe == 0)
  return block_height;
if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
  return block_height;
```

This is calculating the [stripe](#getting-a-seeds-pruning-stripe) of the inputted pruning seed, remember if the seed/stripe is `0` that means no pruning so we can return the current 
height as the next un-pruned height and similarly if the blocks height is within [Tip Blocks](#tip-blocks) of the blockchains height that also means the block won't be pruned.


```c++
const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
```

This is calculating the [log stripes](#getting-a-seeds-log-stripes) of the seed, although Monero currently only allows a log stripes of 3 in the future a higher number could be allowed so this function accounts for that.

If the seeds log stripes is zero this will set it to `CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` which is currently `3`.

Then this sets the value of `mask` to one less than the amount of [stripes](#stripes), for Monero the amount of stripes is 8 so `mask` will be 7.

```c++
const uint32_t block_pruning_stripe = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
if (block_pruning_stripe == stripe)
  return block_height;
```

This calculates the [blocks pruning stripe](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) using the same method that we saw in [this](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) function.

This then checks if the blocks stripe is the same as the seed stripe, if you remember if a seed and block have the same stripe that means the seed will keep the block, so we can just return the entered `block_height`. 

```c++
const uint64_t cycles = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) >> log_stripes);
```

This calculates how many cycles of this table we have done:

| stripe           | 1             | 2            | 3            | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  |
|------------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|----|----|----|----|----|
| cycle 0:         | 0 - 4095      | 4096 - 8,191 | 8192 - 12287 | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
| cycle 1:         | 32768 - 36863 | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
| cycle 2:         | ..            | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | ..            |              |              |    |    |    |    |    |

If we think about what this is doing, this makes sense:

\\(\frac{block height}{CRYPTONOTE PRUNING STRIPE SIZE} * \frac{1}{2^{log stripes}} \\)
--

for normal Monero pruning this equals:

\\(\frac{block height}{4096 * 2^{3}} = \frac{block height}{32768}\\)
--

```c++
const uint64_t cycle_start = cycles + ((stripe > block_pruning_stripe) ? 0 : 1);
```

This checks if we are a past our seeds stripe in a cycle and if we are past it we add 
one to the number of cycles to get `cycles_start`

```c++
const uint64_t h = cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes) + (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE;
```
If you remember from the table [here](#stripes-size) each stripe will keep a part of the blockchain in a cyclic manner, which replates every 32768.

- so stripe 1 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 0 * 4096`
- so stripe 2 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 1 * 4096`
- so stripe 3 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 2 * 4096`

Each stripe will stop keeping blocks at one less than the next stripes start.

Knowing this lets split this into 2 parts:

#### Part 1:

```c++
cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes)
```

This gets the block height at the start of the `cycle_start` cycle, so if `cycle_start` was:

- `0` the height would be `0`
- `1` the height would be `32768`
- `2` the height would be `65536`

which is: `numb_of_cycles * 32768`

#### Part 2:

```c++
 (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE
```

This gets how many blocks from the start of a cycle until the seeds stripe starts.

For example if the seeds stripe was:

- `1` the amount of blocks would be `0`
- `2` the amount of blocks would be `4096`
- `3` the amount of blocks would be `8192`

which is: (stripe-1) * 4096

As you can see if we add the amount of blocks until the start of a cycle (`numb_of_cycles * 32768`) to the amount of blocks into a cycle the until the seeds stripe "kicks in" (`(stripe-1) * 4096`) we will get the next un-pruned height. Yay we are done!

## Getting The Next Pruned Block 

For a particular seed and block height we can calculate what the height of the next pruned block will 
be. The function to fo this in Monero is: 

```c++
uint64_t get_next_pruned_block_height(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t pruning_seed)
{
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return blockchain_height;
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return blockchain_height;
  const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
  const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
  const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
  const uint32_t block_pruning_seed = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
  if (block_pruning_seed != stripe)
    return block_height;
  const uint32_t next_stripe = 1 + (block_pruning_seed & mask);
  return get_next_unpruned_block_height(block_height, blockchain_height, tools::make_pruning_seed(next_stripe, log_stripes));
}
```

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

```c++
const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
if (stripe == 0)
  return blockchain_height;
if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
  return blockchain_height;
```

This is calculating the [stripe](#getting-a-seeds-pruning-stripe) of the inputted pruning seed, remember if the seed/stripe is `0` that means no pruning so we can return the blockchain height as the next un-pruned height and similarly if the blocks height is within [Tip Blocks](#tip-blocks) of the blockchains height that also means the block won't be pruned.

Returning the blockchains height means the next pruned block doesn't currently exist, its bigger than or equal to blockchain_height -  CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS or it means it
will never exist in the case of a zero pruning seed. 

```c++
const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
```

This is calculating the [log stripes](#getting-a-seeds-log-stripes) of the seed, although Monero currently only allows a log stripes of 3 in the future a higher number could be allowed so this function accounts for that.

If the seeds log stripes is zero this will set it to `CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` which is currently `3`.

Then this sets the value of `mask` to one less than the amount of [stripes](#stripes), for Monero the amount of stripes is 8 so `mask` will be 7.

```c++
const uint32_t block_pruning_seed = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
if (block_pruning_seed != stripe)
  return block_height;
```

> There is a typo here it should be block_pruning_stripe, think of this as foreshadowing what we are about to do

This calculates the [blocks pruning ~~seed~~ STRIPE](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) using the same method that we saw in [this](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) function.

This then checks if the blocks stripe is NOT the same as the seed stripe, if you remember if a seed and block don't have the same stripe that means the seed will prune that block, so we can just return the entered `block_height`.

```c++
const uint32_t next_stripe = 1 + (block_pruning_seed & mask);
return get_next_unpruned_block_height(block_height, blockchain_height, tools::make_pruning_seed(next_stripe, log_stripes));
```

Because the seeds stripe == the blocks stripe we need to work out when our stripe ends/
when the next stripe starts to get the next pruned block. To do this we can simply calculate the next stripe, make a [new pruning seed](#generating-pruning-seeds) and pass in that seed, which has a stripe one more than ours, into [get next un-pruned block](#getting-the-next-unpruned-block) to get the start of the next stripes un-pruned set and therefore the start of our next pruned set.

Commit message:

forgot the last bit of this function

src/monero/database/pruning.md, after:

# Pruning

Monero pruning works by having 8 possible pruning seed, the seed chosen will decide what part of the blockchains signing data your node will keep. Each pruned peer generates their pruning seed randomly.

## Stripes 

This is the amount of different blockchain portions that a pruned peer could keep. For Monero this is currently 8 that means the blockchain's signing data is split into 8 portions.

## Stripes Size

Depending on your stripe, and therefore your seed, monerod will store, in a cyclic manner, a  portion of blocks while discarding the ones that are out of your stripe. The stripes size is the size, or amount of blocks before another stripe will have to store their portion of blocks, it is defined at 4096. That means that in terms of block's height, the first pruning stripe will store blocks 0 to 4095, the second stripes will store blocks 4096 to 8191, the third stripe will store blocks 8192 to 12288... etc. While a specific stripe is storing portion of the blockchain, nodes with another stripe can just discard them. This is shown in the table below:


| stripe           | 1             | 2            | 3            | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  |
|------------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|----|----|----|----|----|
| will have blocks | 0 - 4095      | 4096 - 8,191 | 8192 - 12287 | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | 32768 - 36863 | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | ..            | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |

## Tip Blocks

Blocks within 5500 of the tip of the chain will not be pruned.

## Generating Pruning Seeds

The function in Monero to generate pruning seeds:

```c++
uint32_t make_pruning_seed(uint32_t stripe, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(log_stripes <= PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK, "log_stripes out of range");
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(stripe > 0 && stripe <= (1ul << log_stripes), "stripe out of range");
  return (log_stripes << PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT) | ((stripe - 1) << PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT);
}
```
This function takes in a stripe which is number 1 to 8 including(1 & 8) and a log_stripes which is log2 of the amount of different stripes (8) which is 3.

The constants used in this function:
```c++
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT = 7;
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK = 0x7;
static constexpr uint32_t PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT = 0;
```
The possible inputs/ outputs of this function (`log_stripes` is always 3)

| input (stripe) | output (seed) |
|----------------|---------------|
| 1              | 384           |
| 2              | 385           |
| 3              | 386           |
| 4              | 387           |
| 5              | 388           |
| 6              | 389           |
| 7              | 390           |
| 8              | 391           |

## Getting A Seeds Log Stripes

Monero currently only accepts a log stripes value of 3 and will reject any peers that use a different value. The function to calculate a seeds log stripes is:

```c++
constexpr inline uint32_t get_pruning_log_stripes(uint32_t pruning_seed) { 
    return (pruning_seed >> PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_SHIFT) & PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK; 
}

```

This only return 3 for all currently valid Monero seeds.

## Getting A Seeds Pruning Stripe

The seed's pruning stripe corresponds, as explain earlier, to the range of blocks we keep. This is the function that give the stripe with the pruning seed in Monero:

```c++
  inline uint32_t get_pruning_stripe(uint32_t pruning_seed) { 
    if (pruning_seed == 0) return 0; 
    return 1 + ((pruning_seed >> PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_SHIFT) & PRUNING_SEED_STRIPE_MASK); }
```

A pruning seed of 0 means no pruning. This function is just the inverse of [Generating Pruning Seeds](#generating-pruning-seeds) so the inputs/ outputs of this will just be the other way round. 

## Getting A Blocks Pruning Stripe

A Blocks pruning stripe is the stripe that corresponds to keeping that block so for blocks 0 to 4095 this will be 1, for blocks 4096 to 8191 this will be 2.
The function in Monero to get the pruning stripe that corresponds to keeping that block is:

```c++
uint32_t get_pruning_stripe(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return 0;
  return ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & (uint64_t)((1ul << log_stripes) - 1)) + 1;
}
```
[Pruning Stripe Size](#stripes-size)

This function takes in a number (`block_height`) and outputs a number 0 to 8. Zero is a special case for if the block_height is within Tip Blocks, this means every seed should keep this block. For 1 to 8 the output will rotate every 4096 so if I input 0 the output is 1 and if I input 4096 the output is 2 and so 
on...

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

As you can see, this function first checks if the block_height is within Tip Blocks and returns 0, because every seed will have this block.

`((1ul << log_stripes) - 1)` This sets the last 3 bits: `0000 0111` so when we bitand we 
remove every other bit.

`(block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE)`:
- for any block 0 to 4095 dividing by 4096 will output 0 (stripe: 1)
- for any block 4096 to 8191 dividing by 4096 will output 1 (stripe: 2)
- for any blocks 32768 to 36863 dividing by 4096 will output 8 (stripe: 1)

Here's an issue, we need the strips to be cyclic. A result of 8 should give an output of 1, and a result of 455 should give an output of 5.
To do so we just use the modulo operation. (8 mod 8 = 1, 455 mod 8 = 5) In binary operation, if the divisor is a power of two, then this is 
equivalent to bitand the value with the divisor -1:

This is why if we bitand this with 7 (0000 0111) this then becomes:
- 0 to 4095 would be 0
- 4096 to 8191 would be 1
- 32768 to 36863 would be 0

now we are close, all we have to do now to get the stripe is add 1


## Getting A Blocks Pruning Seed

The Blocks pruning seed is the seed that will keep that block. This is the function in Monero:

```c++
uint32_t get_pruning_seed(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t log_stripes)
{
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(block_height, blockchain_height, log_stripes);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return 0;
  return make_pruning_seed(stripe, log_stripes);
}
```
This is simple, a call to [`get_pruning_stripe`](#geting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) and passing that stripe into [`make_pruning_seed`](#generating-pruning-seeds)

## Getting The Next UnPruned Block 

For a particular seed and block height we can calculate what the height of the next un-pruned block will 
be. The function to fo this in Monero is: 

```c++
uint64_t get_next_unpruned_block_height(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t pruning_seed)
{
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(block_height <= CRYPTONOTE_MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER+1, block_height, "block_height too large");
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(blockchain_height <= CRYPTONOTE_MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER+1, block_height, "blockchain_height too large");
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return block_height;
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return block_height;
  const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
  const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
  const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
  const uint32_t block_pruning_stripe = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
  if (block_pruning_stripe == stripe)
    return block_height;
  const uint64_t cycles = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) >> log_stripes);
  const uint64_t cycle_start = cycles + ((stripe > block_pruning_stripe) ? 0 : 1);
  const uint64_t h = cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes) + (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE;
  if (h + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS > blockchain_height)
    return blockchain_height < CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS ? 0 : blockchain_height - CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS;
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(h >= block_height, block_height, "h < block_height, unexpected");
  return h;
}
```
As you can see this is a monstrous function

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

```c++
const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
if (stripe == 0)
  return block_height;
if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
  return block_height;
```

This is calculating the [stripe](#getting-a-seeds-pruning-stripe) of the inputted pruning seed, remember if the seed/stripe is `0` that means no pruning so we can return the current 
height as the next un-pruned height and similarly if the blocks height is within [Tip Blocks](#tip-blocks) of the blockchains height that also means the block won't be pruned.


```c++
const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
```

This is calculating the [log stripes](#getting-a-seeds-log-stripes) of the seed, although Monero currently only allows a log stripes of 3 in the future a higher number could be allowed so this function accounts for that.

If the seeds log stripes is zero this will set it to `CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` which is currently `3`.

Then this sets the value of `mask` to one less than the amount of [stripes](#stripes), for Monero the amount of stripes is 8 so `mask` will be 7.

```c++
const uint32_t block_pruning_stripe = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
if (block_pruning_stripe == stripe)
  return block_height;
```

This calculates the [blocks pruning stripe](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) using the same method that we saw in [this](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) function.

This then checks if the blocks stripe is the same as the seed stripe, if you remember if a seed and block have the same stripe that means the seed will keep the block, so we can just return the entered `block_height`. 

```c++
const uint64_t cycles = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) >> log_stripes);
```

This calculates how many cycles of this table we have done:

| stripe           | 1             | 2            | 3            | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  |
|------------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|----|----|----|----|----|
| cycle 0:         | 0 - 4095      | 4096 - 8,191 | 8192 - 12287 | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
| cycle 1:         | 32768 - 36863 | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
| cycle 2:         | ..            | ..           | ..           | .. | .. | .. | .. | .. |
|                  | ..            |              |              |    |    |    |    |    |

If we think about what this is doing, this makes sense:

\\(\frac{block height}{CRYPTONOTE PRUNING STRIPE SIZE} * \frac{1}{2^{log stripes}} \\)
--

for normal Monero pruning this equals:

\\(\frac{block height}{4096 * 2^{3}} = \frac{block height}{32768}\\)
--

```c++
const uint64_t cycle_start = cycles + ((stripe > block_pruning_stripe) ? 0 : 1);
```

This checks if we are a past our seeds stripe in a cycle and if we are past it we add 
one to the number of cycles to get `cycles_start`

```c++
const uint64_t h = cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes) + (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE;
```
If you remember from the table [here](#stripes-size) each stripe will keep a part of the blockchain in a cyclic manner, which replates every 32768.

- so stripe 1 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 0 * 4096`
- so stripe 2 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 1 * 4096`
- so stripe 3 will keep `numb_of_cycles * 32768 + 2 * 4096`

Each stripe will stop keeping blocks at one less than the next stripes start.

This can be formalized into the equation:

`numb_of_cycles * blocks_in_a_cycle + (stripe - 1) * stripe_size`

which also equals:

`numb_of_cycles * (stripe_size * amt_of_stripes) + (stripe - 1) * stripe_size`



Knowing this lets split this into 2 parts:

#### Part 1:

```c++
cycle_start * (CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE << log_stripes)
```

This gets the block height at the start of the `cycle_start` cycle, so if `cycle_start` was:

- `0` the height would be `0`
- `1` the height would be `32768`
- `2` the height would be `65536`

Which is: `numb_of_cycles * blocks_in_a_cycle`.</br>
For normal Monero pruning: `numb_of_cycles * (4096 * 8)`

#### Part 2:

```c++
 (stripe - 1) * CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE
```

This gets how many blocks from the start of a cycle until the seeds stripe starts.

For example if the seeds stripe was:

- `1` the amount of blocks would be `0`
- `2` the amount of blocks would be `4096`
- `3` the amount of blocks would be `8192`

which is: `(stripe-1) * stripe_size`

As you can see if we add the amount of blocks until the start of a cycle (`numb_of_cycles * blocks_in_a_cycle`) to the amount of blocks into a cycle the until the seeds stripe "kicks in" (`(stripe-1) * stripe_size`) we will get the next un-pruned height.

```c++
if (h + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS > blockchain_height)
    return blockchain_height < CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS ? 0 : blockchain_height - CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS;
CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(h >= block_height, block_height, "h < block_height, unexpected");
return h;
```

We now have to check if the height we calculated is above the [tip blocks](#tip-blocks), if it is we get the starting height of the tip blocks and return that or if it isn't over
the tip blocks we can just return the calculated height. Yay, we are done!

## Getting The Next Pruned Block 

For a particular seed and block height we can calculate what the height of the next pruned block will 
be. The function to fo this in Monero is: 

```c++
uint64_t get_next_pruned_block_height(uint64_t block_height, uint64_t blockchain_height, uint32_t pruning_seed)
{
  const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
  if (stripe == 0)
    return blockchain_height;
  if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
    return blockchain_height;
  const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
  const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
  const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
  const uint32_t block_pruning_seed = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
  if (block_pruning_seed != stripe)
    return block_height;
  const uint32_t next_stripe = 1 + (block_pruning_seed & mask);
  return get_next_unpruned_block_height(block_height, blockchain_height, tools::make_pruning_seed(next_stripe, log_stripes));
}
```

#### explaining what the function is doing in depth:

```c++
const uint32_t stripe = get_pruning_stripe(pruning_seed);
if (stripe == 0)
  return blockchain_height;
if (block_height + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS >= blockchain_height)
  return blockchain_height;
```

This is calculating the [stripe](#getting-a-seeds-pruning-stripe) of the inputted pruning seed, remember if the seed/stripe is `0` that means no pruning so we can return the blockchain height as the next un-pruned height and similarly if the blocks height is within [Tip Blocks](#tip-blocks) of the blockchains height that also means the block won't be pruned.

Returning the blockchains height means the next pruned block doesn't currently exist, its bigger than or equal to blockchain_height -  CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS or it means it
will never exist in the case of a zero pruning seed. 

```c++
const uint32_t seed_log_stripes = get_pruning_log_stripes(pruning_seed);
const uint64_t log_stripes = seed_log_stripes ? seed_log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES;
const uint64_t mask = (1ul << log_stripes) - 1;
```

This is calculating the [log stripes](#getting-a-seeds-log-stripes) of the seed, although Monero currently only allows a log stripes of 3 in the future a higher number could be allowed so this function accounts for that.

If the seeds log stripes is zero this will set it to `CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` which is currently `3`.

Then this sets the value of `mask` to one less than the amount of [stripes](#stripes), for Monero the amount of stripes is 8 so `mask` will be 7.

```c++
const uint32_t block_pruning_seed = ((block_height / CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_STRIPE_SIZE) & mask) + 1;
if (block_pruning_seed != stripe)
  return block_height;
```

> There is a typo here it should be block_pruning_stripe, think of this as foreshadowing what we are about to do

This calculates the [blocks pruning ~~seed~~ STRIPE](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) using the same method that we saw in [this](#getting-a-blocks-pruning-stripe) function.

This then checks if the blocks stripe is NOT the same as the seed stripe, if you remember if a seed and block don't have the same stripe that means the seed will prune that block, so we can just return the entered `block_height`.

```c++
const uint32_t next_stripe = 1 + (block_pruning_seed & mask);
return get_next_unpruned_block_height(block_height, blockchain_height, tools::make_pruning_seed(next_stripe, log_stripes));
```

Because the seeds stripe == the blocks stripe we need to work out when our stripe ends/
when the next stripe starts to get the next pruned block. To do this we can simply calculate the next stripe, make a [new pruning seed](#generating-pruning-seeds) and pass in that seed, which has a stripe one more than ours, into [get next un-pruned block](#getting-the-next-unpruned-block) to get the start of the next stripes un-pruned set and therefore the start of our next pruned set.
